Bence/auto install (#94)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/running-in-ci.md

# Running in CI

[TOC]

> The following instructions use [Semgrep CI](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-action) and require a free [Semgrep Community](https://semgrep.dev/manage) or paid Semgrep Team account. `SEMGREP_DEPLOYMENT_ID` and `SEMGREP_TOKEN` information is available at [Manage > Settings](https://semgrep.dev/manage/settings) after login.

Reviewer: @pabloest @ievans For this section I think we could reduce the strength of our language to highlight that Semgrep works in CI (and has an epic wrapper with XYZ benefits), and optionally can be used with Semgrep App for notifications, org-wide management, etc. Thoughts?

Reviewer 2: @dlukeomalley Do you mean to account for more use cases based on "manual CI" running instead of Semgrep App -based running? Wouldn’t users miss out on policy management, notification config, analytics, etc.? (which all require running in CI and an account)

!!! danger
    `SEMGREP_TOKEN` is a secret value: DO NOT HARDCODE IT AND LEAK CREDENTIALS. Use your CI provider's secret or environment variable management feature to store it.

Semgrep can seamlessly integrate into your CI pipeline using GitHub Actions or GitLab CI.

## GitHub Actions

The easiest way to set up the Semgrep CI integration in GitHub

> is via the [Semgrep Community](https://semgrep.dev/manage/) app.

Reviewer: I think we'll want to move towards Semgrep App as the descriptor, reserving Community and Team for discussion of specific tiers. 

I've created a tracking ticket to make that rename consistent across the docs. CC @pabloest

When you install Semgrep on a GitHub organization,
you select which repositories should be visible to Semgrep.
The ones you select will appear on the [Projects page](https://semgrep.dev/manage/projects).

!!! info
    You can update this list of selected repositories at any time
    through your organization's settings page on GitHub.
    Just go to Settings > Installed GitHub Apps > semgrep.dev > Configure
    and make your changes in the 'Repository access' section.
  

> To set up Semgrep CI in GitHub Actions on one of these projects,

Reviewer: @underyx Taking this in a different direction, what do you think of providing problem-focused instructions that place auto project-setup instructions under something more like "Rolling out Semgrep at your org" or "Adding Semgrep to many projects"?

click its "Set up" button
on the [Projects page](https://semgrep.dev/manage/projects).
You will be taken to a page where you can configure
exactly how you want the CI job to behave.

> We recommend using Semgrep with the default settings.

Reviewer 2: Should we link to another docs page with info about that behavior and those settings, or should it be here?

Semgrep will then commit a CI workflow file to your repository.
Please temporarily disable any branch protection rules
that might block writes to your default branch.

!!! info

>     If you prefer, you can also copy the contents of the CI configuration file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You can also copy the contents of the CI configuration file
```

  #push:
  #    branches: ["master", "main"]

jobs:
  semgrep:
    name: Scan
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      # Checkout project source
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      # Scan code using project's configuration on https://semgrep.dev/manage
      - uses: returntocorp/semgrep-action@v1

        # Set GITHUB_TOKEN to leave automatic comments on your pull requests.
        #env:
        #  GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}

        with:
          publishToken: ${{ secrets.SEMGREP_TOKEN }}
          publishDeployment: ${{ secrets.SEMGREP_DEPLOYMENT_ID }}

          # never fail the build due to findings on pushes, but collect findings data
          #auditOn: push

          # Generate a SARIF file for GitHub's code scanning feature. See the next step.
          #generateSarif: "1"

      # Upload SARIF file generated in previous step
      #- name: Upload SARIF file
      #  uses: github/codeql-action/upload-sarif@v1
      #  with:
      #    sarif_file: semgrep.sarif
      #  if: always()
```

</p>
</details>

<a name="inline-pr-comments-beta"></a>
<br />

### PR Comments (beta)

!!! info
    This feature is currently only available for GitHub.

> To get inline PR comments on your pull requests, set the `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable in your workflow file to `secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN`, which is the GitHub app installation access token and takes the form of this snippet:

Reviewer 2: All pull requests for projects that are set to “Inline PR comments enabled” yes? I’m not sure what the default setting is but should we inform the user that this box needs to be checked?

```
uses: returntocorp/semgrep-action@v1
        env: # Optional environment variable for automatic PR comments (beta)
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

See a complete example of this workflow file including this environment variable (commented out) in the [above example workflow file](#github-actions).

!!! info
    Unlike `secrets.SEMGREP_TOKEN`,
    there’s no need to create `secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN` yourself
    because it’s automatically set by GitHub.
    It only needs to be passed to the action via the workflow file.

> Comments are left when Semgrep CI finds a result that blocks CI.

Reviewer 2: Also for projects / policies for which the inline comments are enabled but the project setting is to _not_ block CI?

Author: Not sure what the behavior is 😕 I was just moving these lines around.

Note that this feature is experimental; please reach out to support@r2c.dev to report any issues.
<br /><br />

> ## GitLab CI

Reviewer: @underyx What led you to call out GitLab differently here than say BuildKite or CircleCI?

<p>

```yaml
include:
  - template: "Workflows/MergeRequest-Pipelines.gitlab-ci.yml"

semgrep:

>   image: returntocorp/semgrep-agent:v1

Reviewer 2: Do we need to explain what is `semgrep-agent`?

  script:
    - python -m semgrep_agent --publish-deployment $SEMGREP_DEPLOYMENT_ID --publish-token $SEMGREP_TOKEN
```

</p>
</br>

## Other providers

Although not fully supported, these instructions are here to help you integrate with your CI provider of choice.

> The following commands can be run by your CI provider (or on the commandline):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following commands can be run by your CI provider (or on the command line):
```

<p>

> ```sh

Reviewer: What is the significance of these variables and why might someone want to set them? What happens if they're not set?

# Set additional environment variables
$ SEMGREP_JOB_URL=https://example.com/me/myjob
$ SEMGREP_REPO_URL=https://gitwebsite.com/myrepository
$ SEMGREP_BRANCH=mybranch
$ SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=myorg/myrepository

# Run semgrep_agent
$ python -m semgrep_agent --publish-deployment $SEMGREP_DEPLOYMENT_ID --publish-token $SEMGREP_TOKEN
```

</p>

> For diff-aware scans, include the flag `--baseline-ref` set to a git ref (branch name, tag, or commit hash) to use as a baseline. This will prompt Semgrep to ignore findings that were already present in the codebase, and only show findings that were introduced by modifications to the baseline.

Reviewer: What is a diff-aware scan? :)

> For diff-aware scans, include the flag `--baseline-ref` set to a git ref (branch name, tag, or commit hash) to use as a baseline. This will prompt Semgrep to ignore findings that were already present in the codebase, and only show findings that were introduced by modifications to the baseline.

Reviewer 2: “…will prompt Semgrep to ignore findings that were…” ← should this be Semgrep CI or Semgrep Agent?

Using the instructions above, Semgrep should be able to integrate into the following CI providers, with some limitations:

- AppVeyor
- Bamboo
- Bitbucket Pipelines
- Bitrise
- Buildbot
- Buildkite
- CircleCI
- Codeship
- Codefresh
- Jenkins
- TeamCity CI
- Travis CI

> For example, Buildkite and CircleCI can be configured as follows, though some features such as deduplication of results may not work as expected:

Reviewer: Per Community Slack convo, I believe we can strike this!
